#Explaining REST and HTTP

###What is a REST?

REST is the underlying architectural pattern/style of the web. It allows browsers and servers to communicate in complex ways without either knowing much about each other. 

The key constraint is that the server and client must agree on the media type used. Usually this is HTML. However, you can specify other types in the headers:  The client sends over the *application-type/* in its **ACCEPT** header, whereas the server responds with the format as denoted in **CONTENT-TYPE**. 

REST uses four standards: 

1. 	**HTTP** - hypertext transfer protocol
2. 	**URL** - universal resource locator
3.	Resource representations -  xml, html, json, etc.
4.	**MIME** (multipurpose internet mail extensions) types -  text/html, text/html, image/gif


###HTTP:  The Uniform Interface

Interfaces are what the outside world -- people like you and me -- use to communicate with computers, and the other people at the end of them.

The interface REST uses is HTTP.  **HTTP is defined around verbs and nouns**. The verbs are the actions that the client would like to implement on the server -- GET, PUT, POST, DELETE. Nouns are the resources that the client would like to access. To put it another way, the verbs are used to manipulate the nouns, these resources. 

When a URL is hit, the server returns a *representation* of the server-side resource to the client. This representation puts the client in *state*. When the client makes another request, the client changes or *transfers* state by bringing up the new representation. Hence, the wording *Representational State Transfer* (REST).

For more, check out this [blog](http://www.xfront.com/REST-Web-Services.html) and [StackOverflow post](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/671118/what-exactly-is-restful-programming).
